it is for 25 in the afternoon we started
preparing for this a long time ago
because I said this would be easy video
to do period-correct
what we're doing today at the end of
every single year people and human
beings and all the creatures alike just
cannot help but do ten year challenges
the last 10 years there's a ten year
comparison you know no one cares what
you looked like ten years ago but you
know we do care about how far computers
have changed this holiday season give
the gift of r-tx with EVGA is extended
lineup of r-tx enabled graphics cards
EVGA offers a wide variety of 20 series
GPUs ranging from mild to wild featuring
icx cooling and hybrid models all 20
series GPUs from EVGA are compatible to
precision x1 for amazing overclocking
and monitoring support allowing you to
keep an eye on all temperatures clock
speeds and even RGB control to see the
full range of 20 series RTX video cards
from EVGA follow the link in the
description below
what we've got right here was the
pinnacle of PC power in 2009 nish I
don't know exactly when the release of
some of this hardware came out but 2009
there abouts
we actually had to do some digging to
source some of this hardware and we
actually planned on doing this video the
beginning of this year at the end of the
year still 2019 nine years is still the
same ok so what we've got here for
Hardware case you're wondering a cue
9400 so this is a Core 2 quad 4 core no
hyper threading on was LGA 775 is what I
think the socket is we have got a
gigabyte G a - g4 1 M - II s2l revision
1.1 well its Patriot Ram and how much
isn't it how much Rams in there 8 gig 4
gigs for gigs 800 mega it's a big part
KC
so it's ddr2 now for the GPU I actually
reached out to EVGA so a huge shout out
to jacob at EVGA for sending this over
this and it was a really weird
conversation it's like this guy sound
really weird but i need a graphics card
and he's like ok that's not that weird
and it's like I need a 9800 GTX he's
like hold on let me see
and then he texts emails me
yeah we got one like what he's like yeah
we got a 9800 gtx+ I know what the Plex
denote plus denotes but there is and
then we had to go through sourcing a
cable because then we realized it only
had DVI on it and a ps2 port so it's
actually not ps2 s-video now this is not
technically a period-correct
power supply when Phil brought this PC
over to the studio last year it had like
one of these in it so I was like for the
love of God replace it back we even
labeled this one PSU for pretty shitty
unit 1,000 Watts 9 thousand watts nine
thousand it's 100 plus rated yeah now
our comparison system what we decided
was oh oh it's doing it again we're
hoping we could get through this video
without I mean I did touch it so it
could be the motherboard so what we did
that's I thought that was the power pike
anyway this one keeps artifacting every
now and then so we're hoping we get to
the test without it dying with a backup
plan if it does it's a little bit newer
of a car at about a year and a half
newer it's a 7750 from AMD here's what
we are comparing it to we decided we
would take what was considered like some
of the best Hardware you can get at the
time not including like the X platforms
I think x58 might have been out around
that era we are taking it and comparing
it to a budget system from 2019 and the
reason why I'm doing this is that a lot
of you are still running PCs that are
that old this is basically the budget
build we built earlier this year with
our help of our friend friends at Micro
Center but what we did was we took out
the second gen Rison 2600 that was in
here we put in the brand new third gen
Rison 3400 G but we're pretty convinced
actually in some of these tests that if
we ran the APU we'd probably still be
more powerful than that system but to
keep things a little bit more like
apples to apples in the sense that we
have you know graphics card GOG scarred
CPU CPU we're running that CPU with the
bottom and the graphics card from Nvidia
right now in 2019 which happens to be
the GTX 1650 not a super another 16 60
or any of that
by 1650 and we are running it off of an
nvme SSD now that might make you go wait
a minute a this is the budget system
while you're running an nvme you will
see why as we move forward with this
test but as of right now because of Jen
for PCI East being a thing because of
AMD and the x57 a chipset and all the
the Gen 4 stuff or PCIe gen3 PCIe 4x
stuff or 4 by whatever stuff is way
cheaper than it has ever been in fact I
just bought Phil a 500 gigabyte nvme
scratch drive at 970 Evo from samsung
for $70 off Amazon trust me when I say
what we just went through to get Windows
installed and updated and games is
painful because that's actually running
a newer hard drive it's a 2 terabyte
barracuda drive from Seagate and it's a
7200 rpm drive if you were doing this
truly period-correct we'd still be
installing everything you're not doing
this today
this CPU is overclocked to 4 gigahertz
all core the GPU is also overclocked
plus 100 on the core so 100 megahertz
and 500 on the memory fill and I talked
about this offline I was like should I
overclock this I feel like it's fair
because it's something you can do with
the hardware he was like yeah go for it
so that's what we're running on this
system and apparently I'm still choking
the intake from that last video we did I
should probably fix that there we go so
we decided on some tests that we're
gonna run here we're gonna keep it all
fairly period-correct for this system
because what we really want to see is
how far has hardware come since 2009 we
already know a system from 2009 cannot
run modern titles today because of the
fact that it is far below these system
requirements so rather than even just
show the obvious of duh
you can't play Red Dead Redemption 2
with this system took a longest time
nobody can play it but they actually
fixed all their bugs now we want to see
is how far a budget system not a bottom
dollar system but a budget system the
system would probably come in around 600
or so bucks versus something that was
considerably more than $600 at the time
so here the test we're gonna run we are
going to be running
3dmark Vantage because that is the 3d
mark that was from that particular era
counter-strike source even though that
is several years predating this quite a
few years actually we think
counter-strike source engine is I feel
like it was kind of like Vulcan and what
it is now and it's optimization and just
how good it looks and how good it ran we
are also going to be running left 4 dead
2 we are going to also be running world
of warships in a world of warships is
gonna be just a modern title that we're
throwing in there because one it's a
free to play title so chances are
someone on a system like this who can't
afford to upgrade it would probably play
a lot of free-to-play games and I'm kind
of curious as to how this system would
do on a modern ish free-to-play title
and it still looks really good so I'm
curious as how it will run on that
hardware in terms of synthetics will be
running Cinebench r15 do you even
download r20 okay well be doing
Cinebench r15 we're not gonna wait for
that download we can actually overpower
that harddrive with the internet here
and then all hell breaks loose because
that's a SATA 2 system not say the 360
gigabit per second we think it's a two
to one and a half gig per second and
we're not getting the full 1.5 gigs per
second because that's also the system
drive doing all kinds of other things
and then we actually downloaded 3dmark
oh 6 even though oh 6 is much older it
has the it's the very what's it called
again
proxy con or whatever it has the big do
that comes out with like the big Gatling
guns so we're just gonna do that one for
the hell of it so those are the tests
we're gonna run we're gonna set the
camera on the tripod we're gonna do
everything side by side so I'm getting
mines is locked at 300 feet and it's
also you're showing decibels video
stress test begin video stress test
alright stays on we so the settings on I
forgot to tell him it's 1920 by 1080 all
settings maxed out four times MSAA it's
already does it there's a huge
difference I'm in the 120 and 30s and
you're in
yeah I'm engine locked so what we were
expecting here is given the clock speed
that this card is gonna be running at
and the fact that these titles are so
old that we're going to be hitting FPS
caps of the engines that we're playing
within before I ever get near maxing out
even at 1652 96 62 10.5 - so which this
is that's just because this is capped
and it was capped the whole time where
years actually fluctuated that's
apparently what's in the middle of all
those numbers is about 210 we can join a
server that's already up se pathway can
I enter the also I'm getting 130 fps I'm
getting 296 wait a minute
Oh guys I think we're okay so much try
to run me over the tank I think it's you
it's my crash oh good rolls are inverted
okay your card might be done skis I
think it beats bears Battlestar
Galactica what bear is best falls black
bear 3 2 so we also are going to be
testing like loading times it's like
we're gonna be like comparing loading
times and stuff too so that's why we're
synchronizing our kicks alright 3 2 and
another thing you are I also pass you
did oh I'll do it again but look how far
it falls in this like this is still a
difficult test to run CPU wise I think I
bet you it's that single threaded miss
of like stuff from this era gotta be
here comes the big dude
just the fact that that card is even
still able to go that cards on his last
legs
Oh crash oh this was one like bloom was
like the thing you're the character like
that model is so bad they literally got
a dude chasing a chick oh that's right
she's secret agent right yeah
whoa they got the boob jiggle it so I
mean the test doesn't look great on your
system because it's it's intentionally
stressing that's that card because it's
supposed to at that time yeah like like
they were never meant to run this good
that's why they look weird when they're
at high FPS did you crash again alright
shut down your system while mine
finishes we're gonna open up that card
and check the thermal paste all right
well my score on that one the guy have
up and running now with the 7750 which
is a 2000 a february 2011 Jeep 1111
it's a February 2012 GPU so its eighth
year almost eight year old card so my
3dmark score was a P thirty four
thousand three hundred twenty nine years
is a 7392 GPU score thirty-six thousand
seven ninety eight versus 67-72 wait so
can we talk about the fact that you
literally have thirty thousand more
schools
almost yeah just over 30,000 more
alright we're gonna take a break from
GPUs for a second okay so we're gonna do
send a bench ar-15 okay so we'll do
we'll do it twice single core and well
oh wait you my hard drive some time so
we'll do multi-core and then single core
alright one two three go hey do you
forty work so you get a 3600 X 12 six
core twelve thread
alright so my 839 versus your 284
alright single cord god to forgive you
for hours right
you know in hindsight this video it
seemed like it would have found quickly
but I didn't really think about how long
the test would take to do honestly it
still blows my mind that that we can
even run the same exact software and the
same exact operating system on computers
that are 10 years apart this shouldn't
be allowed this is this isn't this is an
abomination no but what I'm saying is
like I feel like if we started with in
2009 and did a computer from 1999 that
none of the software would work it out I
mean like the gap from back then was way
bigger than the gap is look how long
that square is taking I love how hey
Intel was the first troll because look
core i7 965 and then phenom ii x4 965 I
got my 74 74 vs. no that's actually
scales well though because like vo 74
which is no luck which is just under
half of that and I'm just above half of
your total core count like score so okay
well mines faster alright alright let's
try left4dead
something that you should actually be
able to play okay yeah oh God
pull me out yeah I jumped out the window
so you're getting you're getting like 45
50 fps alright well left 4 dead playable
but enjoy whoo 6 times slower on this
computer so keep in mind too if the 9800
gtx+ had not died it would be even worse
what is that so the 99 or the 9800 gtx+
is 26% slower on average in the 7750
across-the-board according to user
benchmarks okay so we're doing world of
warships here and we're just doing a
training room but this the engine cap is
basically 75 FPS for this particular
title but we chose it once again it cuz
it's a more modern title free-to-play
title and I find a lot of people in
older systems play a lot of Indian and
free-to-play games because they don't
mind upgrade their systems they also
have 60 70 bucks to throw in a modern
beautiful okay so 75 FPS versus 20 if
you zoom in on my ship is it is it scary
looking with those guns it's so
cinematic right now and 15 fps
Hey look what this little guy doing over
here I got a go but what do you have to
do now to get it up there and FPS so
obviously turn off I'm just gonna go
very low just straight very low and then
also Evans yeah hey I got a hundred and
something when I I mean okay so could
you play it and feel like I'll be honest
a first glance - it doesn't look too -
no it's a pretty game in our what no you
get like this and the bow cause he's
moving forward watch you're gonna die
maybe today is a good day to die if you
know where to put your shells is what
you do - a yummy look the this video
probably is just all over the place and
stuff we were dealing with obviously a
whole lot of hardware type problems we
just wanted to see what would happen
because Phil had access to this 10 year
old computer and we were like let's do
something with it and that's what we
thought of to do what I think I'm gonna
do in my next Miss Citadel is stupid
overpowered armor anyway what I think I
want to do for the next part of this
video is I want to see if we can update
that computer in a in a way that makes
sense I think Justin SSD alone with a
little better graphics card will get us
some pretty good results versus what we
just had here so anyway Oh wouldn't test
we forgot to do as a boot time test let
me sink this french ship real quick hold
on let me try the rear turret I wonder
if I can actually kill this ship and
shut down before you do hey the lights
are still on shut down and
ruff I'm not joking about it still
literally on okay now
three two one is your memory running a
dual-channel in to leave new its
interweaved there we go
actually that's not as bad as I thought
it'd be but you also have password
though anyway I mean yeah SSDs are
important all right guys thanks for
watching we'll see you in the next one